// Author: Adam Henry, adlhenry@ucsc.edu

SYNOPSIS
	Lottery Scheduler - A simple lottery scheduler for freeBSD
	
	Thread Choosing Algorithm
		The scheduler assigns tickets to each thread starting with 500
		tickets. Then the scheduler picks a random number between 0
		abd T-1, where T is the total number of tickets in a run queue.
		The scheduler iterates the queue counting the number of tickets
		in threads covered until it exceeds the random number. When the
		ticket count is larger than the random number the thread which
		caused the condition is chosen to run. The thread is removed
		from the queue and allowed to run. When the thread uses its
		quantum, it is placed back on the queue and the steps repeat.
		
	Ticket Allocation Policy #1
		A thread's ticket number is set to a constant divided by the
		thread's priority level plus one. Interactive threads have a
		constant of 20000 while timeshare threads have constant of
		50000. This constant is matched to the relative range of 
		priorities for interactive and timeshare threads respectively.
		
		A thread's priority number encapsulates the interactivity score
		of a thread and is linearly weighed against its nice number.
		This makes a thread's priority an ideal factor to scale its
		ticket number.
		
	Ticket Allocation Policy #2
		The thread's ticket number is calculated on a range between
		1 and 100000 (roughly, some numbers are lost on the top and
		bottom end). The thread's priority is used to scale the 
		ticket number between these bounds for both interactive and
		timeshare threads. The numbers 1 to 100000 can happen on any
		run queue, which means a thread's ticket based "priority level"
		is unique to its run queue unlike the priority number.
		
DATA
sched_ule.c
	tdq_realtime_usr - user queue for realtime threads
	tdq_timeshare_usr - user queue for timeshare threads
	tdq_idle_usr - user queue for idle threads
	RNDPOOL_LEN - length of tdq_random, i.e., the size of the
				  random number pool
	tdq_random - an array of random unsigned 64-bit numbers
	tdq_random_i - index of a number in the random number pool
	USR_UID_MIN - the minimum user id for threads in a user run queue
	USR_UID_MAX = the maximum user id for threads in a user run queue
	uid - the effective user id of the thread's parent process
	
runq.h
	rq_tickets - the current total ticket count for a run queue
	
proc.h
	td_ticket - the current ticket number for a thread
	
FUNCTIONS
sched_ule.c
	tdq_random_gen()
		purpose - populate the random number pool
		inputs - none
		outputs - generates the random numbers in tdq_random
		assumptions - random() was preceeded by srandom()
		
	tdq_random_get()
		purpose - get a random number from the random number pool
		inputs - none
		outputs - returns a random 64-bit unsigned integer from
				  tdq_random as a circular array
		assumptions - tdq_random_gen() was already called
		
	tdq_runq_add()
		purpose - decides whether a thread belongs in a realtime,
				  timeshare, or idle queue. Also determines whether
				  a thread is user thread or a system thread
		inputs - struct tdq pointer, struct thread pointer, and an integer
		outputs - adds a thread to its run queue
		assumptions - all input pointers are non-null and a thread has an
					  identifying parent process
		
	tdq_runq_choose()
		purpose - choose a thread from run queues in the following
				  order: realtime, timeshare, idle. User queues
				  are checked after system queues
		inputs - struct tdq pointer
		outputs - returns a thread if there is a busy queue and NULL
				  if no busy queues were found
		assumptions - struct tdq pointer is non-null
		
	sched_priority()
		purpose - scales a thread's priority and ticket number
				  according to its calculated interactivity score
		inputs - struct thread pointer
		outputs - adjusts the thread's base priority and scales its
				  ticket number on this priority
		assumptions - struct thread pointer is non-null
		
kern_switch.c
	runq_choose_lottery()
		purpose - iterate a run queue and use the lottery scheduling
				  algorithm to pick a thread in the queue
		inputs - a struct runq pointer and an unsigned 64-bit integer
		outputs - returns the thread which won the lottery or NULL if
				  the run queue was empty
		assumptions - the pointer to the struct runq is non-null, and 
					  if threads are ready to run they will be in the
					  run queue
					  rq_tickets and td_ticket reflect total ticket
					  count and ticket number per thread, repectively
		
	runq_add_pri()
		purpose - add a thread to a run queue at the specified priority
				  priority index, increment the ticket count
		inputs - struct runq pointer, struct thread pointer,
				 unsigned char, integer
		outputs - inserts the thread into the run queue and increments
				  the run queue total ticket count
		assumptions - runq and thread pointers are non-null
		
	runq_remove_idx()
		purpose - remove a thread from a run queue and decrement the
				  ticket count
		inputs - struct runq pointer, struct thread pointer,
				 unsigned char
		outputs - removes the thread from the run queue and decrements
				  the run queue total ticket count
		assumptions - runq and thread pointers are non-null, the thread
					  is in the run queue specified by the runq pointer
